---
slug: /develop-overview
---

# Overview

seekdb supports connection and development through SDKs and SQL. You can choose the appropriate development method based on your needs.

## Use SDKs

seekdb currently provides a Python SDK (pyseekdb). pyseekdb is a Python client provided by OceanBase. It implements a set of API interfaces to support two database connection modes: connecting to an embedded seekdb instance and connecting to a remote server (which can be a server mode seekdb instance or an OceanBase Database instance).

pyseekdb is supported on Linux, macOS, and Windows. The supported database connection modes vary depending on the operating system. For more information, see [Introduction to pyseekdb](../../450.reference/900.sdk/10.pyseekdb-sdk/10.pyseekdb-sdk-get-started.md).

For more information about pyseekdb, see:

* Learn how to deploy seekdb and develop applications using pyseekdb. For more information, see [Get started with pyseekdb](../../100.get-started/50.use-seekdb-with-sdk/25.using-seekdb-in-python-sdk.md).

* Learn about the interfaces supported by pyseekdb and their usage. For more information, see [pyseekdb](../../450.reference/900.sdk/10.pyseekdb-sdk/10.pyseekdb-sdk-get-started.md).

## Use SQL

seekdb is based on the mature OceanBase engine and is compatible with MySQL native drivers. It provides a unified query language that supports multi-model data through SQL. You can use SQL to manage data and develop applications.

For more information about SQL, see:

* Learn how to build database objects and perform hybrid searches using SQL. For more information, see [Get started with SQL](../../100.get-started/100.use-seekdb-with-sql/10.deploy-seekdb-testing-environment.md).

* Learn about the detailed capabilities of SQL:

  * seekdb Develop describes how to manage database objects, manage data, and execute searches using SQL.
  * [SQL Reference](../../450.reference/200.sql/90.sql-overview.md): Learn about the SQL syntax and usage examples of seekdb.