---
slug: /basic-syntax
---

# PL syntax

The syntax of a stored program includes the `BEGIN ... END` block, the `DECLARE` statement, and statement labels.

## BEGIN ... END block

The `BEGIN ... END` block supports compound statements and is used to write stored programs, such as stored procedures, stored functions, and triggers.

The `BEGIN ... END` compound statement can contain multiple statements, which are enclosed by the `BEGIN` and `END` keywords. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
[begin_label:] BEGIN
    [statement_list]
END [end_label]
```

In this syntax, `statement_list` is a list of one or more statements, each of which ends with a semicolon (;). `statement_list` is optional, so an empty compound statement `BEGIN END` is valid.

The `BEGIN ... END` block supports nesting. The `BEGIN ... END` block can also be labeled. For more information, see **Statement labels**.

The default delimiter for PL stored programs is "/". You can use the `delimiter` command to define a custom delimiter so that the entire definition can be passed to the server as a single statement. The delimiter can be one or more characters. Avoid using the backslash (\) character, which is typically used as an escape character. Here is an example:

```sql
DELIMITER $$

DELIMITER //
```

  :::info

  When you develop stored programs in seekdb, you usually need to define a custom delimiter. If the PL block does not contain statements separated by `;`, you do not need to use a delimiter.

  :::

## DECLARE statement

The `DECLARE` statement is used to define local variables, exception handling, and cursors in a stored program. For more information, see [Variables in stored programs](200.storage-object/200.variables-in-stored-programs.md), [Exception handling](900.pl-exception-handling-statement/100.exception-handling-statement.md), and [Cursors](300.cursor/100.overview-of-cursors.md).

The `DECLARE` statement can be used only in the `BEGIN ... END` block and must be placed at the beginning, before any other statements.

The declaration order must follow these rules:

* Cursor declarations must appear before exception handler declarations.

* Variable and condition declarations must appear before cursor or exception handler declarations.

## Statement labels

Labels can be used in the `LOOP`, `REPEAT`, and `WHILE` statements of the `BEGIN ... END` block. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
[begin_label:] BEGIN
    [statement_list]
END [end_label]

[begin_label:] LOOP
    statement_list
END LOOP [end_label]

[begin_label:] REPEAT
    statement_list
UNTIL search_condition
END REPEAT [end_label]

[begin_label:] WHILE search_condition DO
    statement_list
END WHILE [end_label]
```

The following rules apply to labels of these statements:

* A colon (:) must follow `begin_label`.

* `begin_label` can be specified without `end_label`. If `end_label` is specified, it must be the same as `begin_label`.

* If `begin_label` is not specified, `end_label` cannot be specified.

* Labels at the same nesting level must be different.

* The maximum length of a label is 16 characters.

To reference a constructed label, use the `ITERATE` or `LEAVE` statement. The following example shows how to use labels to continue iteration or terminate a loop:

```sql
DELIMITER //

CREATE PROCEDURE doiterate()
    BEGIN
      DECLARE p1 INT DEFAULT 0;
      label1: LOOP
        SET p1 = p1 + 1;
        IF p1 < 10 THEN ITERATE label1; END IF;
        LEAVE label1;
      END LOOP label1;
    END //
Query OK, 0 rows affected
```

For more information about declaring exception handlers in a block, see [DECLARE ... HANDLER](900.pl-exception-handling-statement/300.declare-handler.md).