---

slug: /rand
---

# RAND

## Declaration

```sql
RAND([N])
```

## Description

The `RAND([N])` function accepts 0 or 1 parameter (where `N` is called the random number seed). It returns a random floating-point number in the range [0, 1.0). To obtain a random integer in the range [i, j), you can use the expression `FLOOR(I + RAND() * (j - i))`.

If the parameter `N` is not specified, the random seed is initialized before execution, and `RAND()` generates random numbers based on this seed. Therefore, `RAND()` generates a different sequence of random numbers each time.

If the parameter `N` is specified, it serves as the random number seed. The behavior depends on whether `N` is a constant or a variable:

* If `N` is a constant, it is initialized as the random seed before execution. `RAND(N)` then generates random numbers based on this seed. The same `N` value will produce the same sequence of random numbers.

* If `N` is a variable (such as a column value), it is used as the random seed each time the function is executed. The same `N` value will generate the same random number.

In addition to being used in `SELECT` statements, `RAND([N])` can also appear in `WHERE`, `ORDER BY`, and `GROUP BY` clauses, following the same execution rules. For example, to randomly sort a table, you can use `SELECT FROM T1 ORDER BY RAND()`. To randomly sample 100 rows from a table, you can use `SELECT FROM T1 ORDER BY RAND() LIMIT 100`.

## Examples

```sql
SELECT A, B, RAND() FROM T3;
+------+------+---------------------+
| A    | B    | RAND()              |
+------+------+---------------------+
|    1 |    1 |   0.641815407799385 |
|    2 |    2 | 0.16825051248841966 |
|    3 |    3 |  0.9158063697775886 |
+------+------+---------------------+
3 rows in set (0.001 sec)
```