---

slug: /create-a-geometry-function

---

# Create a geometry function

Create a geometry function to create a geometry in various formats, such as Well-Known Text (WKT) or Well-Known Binary (WKB). The current version of seekdb supports the following functions for creating geometry values: `ST_GeomFromText()`, `ST_GeometryFromText()`, `ST_GeomFromWKB()`, `ST_GeometryFromWKB()`, and `_ST_MakePoint`.

- `ST_GeomFromText()`: Creates a geometry from a string in WKT format.
- `ST_GeometryFromText()`: Similar to `ST_GeomFromText()`, it also creates a geometry from a string in WKT format. Different database systems may provide functions with different names, but the functionality is similar.
- `ST_GeomFromWKB()`: Creates a geometry from binary data in WKB format.
- `ST_GeometryFromWKB()`: Similar to `ST_GeomFromWKB()`, it also creates a geometry from binary data in WKB format.
- `_ST_MakePoint`: Used to create a new point geometry object.

## ST_GeomFromText and ST_GeometryFromText

The `ST_GeomFromText()` and `ST_GeometryFromText()` functions take a Well-Known Text (WKT) representation and an optional spatial reference system identifier (SRID) as parameters and return the corresponding geometry. For more information about the WKT format, see [Spatial data format](../../100.basic-elements/100.data-type/900.spatial-data-type/500.spatial-data-format-of-syntax.md).

The `ST_GeomFromText()` function accepts any WKT value of a geometry type as its first parameter. Other functions provide specific constructors for creating geometry values of each type.
The syntax of the function is as follows:

```sql
ST_GeomFromText(wkt [, srid [, options]]), ST_GeometryFromText(wkt [, srid [, options]])
```

Here is an example:

```sql
SET @geo = "MULTILINESTRING((10 10, 11 11), (9 9, 10 10))";
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.000 sec)

SELECT ST_AsText(ST_GeomFromText(@geo));
+--------------------------------------------+
| ST_AsText(ST_GeomFromText(@geo))           |
+--------------------------------------------+
| MULTILINESTRING((10 10,11 11),(9 9,10 10)) |
+--------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.001 sec)
```

## ST_GeomFromWKB and ST_GeometryFromWKB

The `ST_GeomFromWKB()` and `ST_GeometryFromWKB()` functions take a `BLOB` containing a Well-Known Binary (WKB) representation and an optional spatial reference system identifier (SRID) as parameters and return the corresponding geometry. For more information about the WKB format, see [Spatial data format](../../100.basic-elements/100.data-type/900.spatial-data-type/500.spatial-data-format-of-syntax.md).

The syntax of the function is as follows:

```sql
ST_GeomFromWKB(wkb [, srid [, options]]), ST_GeometryFromWKB(wkb [, srid [, options]])
```

## _ST_MakePoint

The `_ST_MakePoint` function is used to create a point object. This function is typically used when handling map data or when accurately representing geographical locations is required.

The syntax is as follows:

```sql
_ST_MakePoint(x, y, [z])
```

Here is the parameter description:

* `x`: The X coordinate value.

* `y`: The Y coordinate value.

* `z`: Optional. The Z coordinate value.

  * If `z` is not provided, the output is a 2D point with coordinates `(x, y)`.
  * If `z` is provided, the output is a 3D point with coordinates `(x, y, z)`.

:::info

 * `_ST_MakePoint` does not support creating 4D points.

 * The `_ST_MakePoint` function accepts integer (`int`), floating-point (`double`), and string inputs, and converts them to double-precision floating-point numbers (`double`) to create a point object.

 :::

**Here are some examples:**

* Create a 2D point.

  ```shell
  SELECT ST_ASTEXT(_st_makepoint(10, 20));
  ```

  The result is as follows:

  ```shell
  +----------------------------------+
  | ST_ASTEXT(_st_makepoint(10, 20)) |
  +----------------------------------+
  | POINT(10 20)                     |
  +----------------------------------+
  1 row in set (0.001 sec)
  ```

* Create a 3D point.

  ```shell
  SELECT ST_ASTEXT(_st_makepoint(10, -20, 5));
  ```

  The result is as follows:

  ```shell
  +--------------------------------------+
  | ST_ASTEXT(_st_makepoint(10, -20, 5)) |
  +--------------------------------------+
  | POINT Z (10 -20 5)                   |
  +--------------------------------------+
  1 row in set (0.001 sec)
  ```

## Considerations for parameters

The return value of a geometry parameter in a geometry value creation function is not `NULL` unless the following conditions are met:

- If any geometry parameter is `NULL` or has an incorrect syntax, the return value is `NULL`.

- The optional `options` parameter can specify the order of latitude and longitude for geographic coordinates based on the spatial reference system of the geometry parameter. The `options` parameter is a comma-separated list of `key=value` pairs. The only valid `key` is `axis-order`, which can take the values `lat-long`, `long-lat`, or `srid-defined` (default). If the `options` parameter is `NULL`, the return value is `NULL`. If the `options` parameter is invalid, an error occurs.

- If the `SRID` parameter references an undefined spatial reference system (SRS), an `ER_SRS_NOT_FOUND` error occurs.

- For geographic SRS geometry parameters, if the longitude or latitude of any parameter is out of range (in degrees, or in the corresponding units if the SRS uses other units), an error occurs:

  - If the longitude value is not within the range (-180, 180], an `ER_LONGITUDE_OUT_OF_RANGE` error occurs.

  - If the latitude value is not within the range [−90, 90], an `ER_LATITUDE_OUT_OF_RANGE` error occurs.