---

slug: /geometry-conversion-function

---

# Geometry conversion functions

Geometry conversion functions convert geometry values from internal geometry format to WKT or WKB format, or swap the order of X and Y coordinates. The geometry conversion functions supported by seekdb are `ST_AsBinary()`, `ST_AsWKB`, `ST_AsText()`, and `ST_AsWKT()`.

## ST_AsBinary and ST_AsWKB

`ST_AsBinary()` and `ST_AsWKB()` convert values from internal geometry format to their WKB representation and return the binary result. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
ST_AsBinary(g [, options]), ST_AsWKB(g [, options])
```

The returned value contains geographic coordinates (latitude and longitude), whose order is specified by the spatial reference system applied to the geometry parameter. You can specify the optional `options` parameter to override the default axis order.

```sql
SELECT ST_AsText(ST_GeomFromWKB(ST_AsWKB(@geo, 'axis-order=long-lat')));
```

## ST_AsText and ST_AsWKT

`ST_AsText()` and `ST_AsWKT()` convert values from internal geometry format to their WKT representation and return the string result. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
ST_AsText(g [, options]), ST_AsWKT(g [, options])
```

The returned value contains geographic coordinates (latitude and longitude), whose order is specified by the spatial reference system applied to the geometry parameter. You can specify the optional `options` parameter to override the default axis order.

```sql
SET @geo = 'LINESTRING(0 6,6 12,12 18)';
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.001 sec)

 SELECT ST_AsText(ST_GeomFromText(@geo));
+----------------------------------+
| ST_AsText(ST_GeomFromText(@geo)) |
+----------------------------------+
| LINESTRING(0 6,6 12,12 18)       |
+----------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.001 sec)
```

## Considerations

The returned value of the geometry parameter for a geometry conversion function is not `NULL` in the following cases:

- If the syntax of any geometry parameter is incorrect, an error `ER_GIS_INVALID_DATA` occurs.
- If any geometry parameter is in an undefined spatial reference system, the axes will be output in the order they appear in the geometry, and an alert `ER_WARN_SRS_NOT_FOUND_AXIS_ORDER` will be generated.
- By default, geographic coordinates (latitude and longitude) are parsed in the order specified by the spatial reference system of the geometry parameter. You can specify the optional `options` parameter to override the default axis order. `options` is a comma-separated list of `key=value` pairs. The `key` value can only be `axis-order`, and the allowed values are `lat-long`, `long-lat`, and `srid-defined` (default). If the `options` parameter is `NULL`, the returned value is `NULL`. If the options parameter is invalid, an error occurs.