---

slug: /roaring-bitmap-data-type-overview

---

# Overview of the RoaringBitmap data type

seekdb supports the RoaringBitmap data type, which is an efficient compressed bitmap data type. You can use this data type to store and process a set of unsigned integers (non-negative integers).

A bitmap is a technique for efficiently processing large amounts of data. Its advantages are as follows:

* High space efficiency. A bitmap uses one bit to represent the presence of an element, which saves a significant amount of storage space. This structure is commonly used in scenarios that require processing large amounts of data, such as data statistics, data deduplication, and data analysis.
* Simple and fast operations. For example, checking whether an element exists, adding an element, and deleting an element can be performed with corresponding bit operations. By using operations such as XOR, intersection, and union on bitmaps, you can efficiently implement business data queries and analysis.

Compared with traditional bitmap data types, the RoaringBitmap data type is better suited for storing very sparse bit arrays. In some cases, it can be hundreds of times faster than other bitmaps and provide significantly better compression results. Additionally, the RoaringBitmap data type can be extended to support 64-bit integer data.

In addition to the RoaringBitmap data type, seekdb also provides functions for bitmap data. For more information, see [Functions for the RoaringBitmap data type](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/common-oceanbase-database-10000000001974927).