---
slug: /connection-methods-overview
---

# Overview of connection methods

This section describes the methods for connecting to and accessing seekdb. Currently, you can connect to seekdb by using a client, a driver, an ORM framework, or a connection pool.

## Choose a client to connect to seekdb

The following clients are supported for connecting to seekdb:

* MySQL client (mysql)

  mysql is a command-line client for MySQL databases. It must be installed separately.

  After you connect to seekdb, you can run mysql commands and SQL statements in the mysql command-line environment to perform the following tasks:

  * Calculate, store, and print query results.

  * Create database objects, check, and modify object definitions.

  * Execute database management and parameter modification operations.

  For more information about how to connect to seekdb by using the MySQL client, see [Connect to seekdb by using a MySQL client](200.use-client-connect-seekdb/100.connect-to-seekdb-by-using-a-mysql-client.md).

## Choose a driver or ORM framework to connect to seekdb

### C

* C driver (OceanBase Connector/C)

  OceanBase Connector/C is a client development component for OceanBase based on C/C++. It supports the C API library.

  OceanBase Connector/C allows C/C++ programs to access seekdb in a relatively low-level manner, enabling operations such as database connection, data access, error handling, and prepared statement processing.

  OceanBase Connector/C is also known as LibOBClient. It enables applications to communicate with seekdb nodes of the database server as independent server processes over the network. Client programs reference C API header files during compilation and can connect to C API library files.

  :::info

  The shared object (so) file generated by LibOBClient is `libobclient.so` (corresponding to MySQL's `libmysqlclient.so`).

  :::

  For a specific example of connecting to seekdb using a C application, see [Connect to seekdb using MySQL Connector/C](300.sample-program/300.c/100.connect-to-the-seekdb-through-mysql-connector-c.md).

### Golang

* Golang driver

  * Go-SQL-Driver/MySQL

    Go-SQL-Driver/MySQL is a MySQL driver implemented in Go, which follows the Go database/sql standard interface. It can be easily integrated with Go applications. For a specific example of connecting to seekdb using Go-SQL-Driver/MySQL, see [Connect to seekdb using Go-SQL-Driver/MySQL](300.sample-program/400.go/100.go-sql-driver-mysql-connection-seekdb-sample-program.md).

* Golang ORM

  * GORM

    GORM is an excellent ORM (Object-Relational Mapping) library for Go, providing a wide range of features to help developers interact with databases more easily. For a specific example of connecting to seekdb using GORM, see [Connect to seekdb using GORM](300.sample-program/400.go/200.gorm-connection-seekdb-example-program.md).

### Java

* Java driver (MySQL Connector/J)

  * MySQL Connector/J

    MySQL Connector/J is the official JDBC driver provided by MySQL. For a specific example of connecting to seekdb using the Java driver, see [Connect to seekdb using MySQL Connector/J](300.sample-program/100.java/700.connect-to-seekdb-through-mysql-connectorJ.md).

  * SpringJDBC

    For a specific example of connecting to seekdb using SpringJDBC, see [Connect to seekdb using Spring JDBC](300.sample-program/100.java/300.connect-to-seekdb-through-spring-jdbc.md).

* Java ORM framework

  * SpringBoot

    For a specific example of connecting to seekdb using SpringBoot, see [Connect to seekdb using SpringBoot](300.sample-program/100.java/100.connect-to-seekdb-through-spring-boot.md).

  * SpringBatch

    For a specific example of connecting to seekdb using SpringBatch, see [Connect to seekdb using SpringBatch](300.sample-program/100.java/200.connect-to-seekdb-through-spring-batch.md).

  * SpringJPA

    For a specific example of connecting to seekdb using SpringJPA, see [Connect to seekdb using SpringDataJPA](300.sample-program/100.java/400.connect-to-seekdb-through-springjpa.md).

  * Hibernate

    For a specific example of connecting to seekdb using Hibernate, see [Connect to seekdb using Hibernate](300.sample-program/100.java/500.connect-to-seekdb-through-hibernate.md).

  * MyBatis

    For a specific example of connecting to seekdb using MyBatis, see [Connect to seekdb using MyBatis](300.sample-program/100.java/600.connect-to-seekdb-through-mybatis.md).

### PHP

* PHP driver

  * EXT

    EXT (PHP Extension) is an extension for PHP that enables connection and interaction with various databases. It provides a variety of features to help developers better manage databases and process data. For a specific example of connecting to seekdb using EXT, see [Connect to seekdb using the EXT driver](300.sample-program/500.php/100.ext-driver-connects-to-seekdb.md).

  * MySQLi

    MySQLi (MySQL Improved) is an extension provided by PHP for interacting with MySQL databases. It supports both object-oriented and procedural programming, offering features like prepared statements, transaction support, and multi-query execution to enhance performance and security. For a specific example of connecting to seekdb using MySQLi, see [Connect to seekdb using the MySQLi driver](300.sample-program/500.php/200.use-mysqli-driver-to-connect-seekdb.md).

  * PDO

    PDO (PHP Data Objects) is a database access abstraction layer that allows developers to interact with various databases in a unified manner. PDO supports prepared statements, enhancing security and simplifying code migration between different databases. For a specific example of connecting to seekdb using PDO, see [Connect to seekdb using the PDO driver](300.sample-program/500.php/300.use-pdo-driver-to-connect-seekdb.md).

### Python

* Python driver (PyMySQL)

  * PyMySQL

    PyMySQL is a library for connecting to a MySQL server in Python 3.x. It follows the Python Database API Specification 2.0 and includes a pure-Python MySQL client library. In seekdb, users can use the PyMySQL driver to establish a connection between Python applications and seekdb. For a specific example of how to connect a Python application to seekdb using PyMySQL, see [PyMySQL connection to seekdb sample program](300.sample-program/200.python/200.pymysql-connection-to-seekdb-sample-program.md).

  * mysqlclient

    mysqlclient is a Python client library for MySQL databases, which wraps the official MySQL C API. For a specific example of how to connect a Python application to seekdb using mysqlclient, see [mysqlclient connection to seekdb sample program](300.sample-program/200.python/100.mysqlclient-connection-to-seekdb-sample-program.md).

  * MySQL-connector-python

    MySQL-connector-python is an official MySQL database driver provided by Oracle, specifically designed for Python. It adheres to the Python Database API Specification 2.0 and offers a comprehensive set of features for interacting with MySQL databases through Python code. This library is cross-platform, supports both Python 2 and 3, and is implemented entirely in pure Python without relying on any external libraries. In seekdb, MySQL-connector-python can be used to establish connections, execute queries, and manage data. For a specific example of how to connect a Python application to seekdb using MySQL-connector-python, see [Create a MySQL-connector-python connection to seekdb sample program](300.sample-program/200.python/300.mysql-connector-py-connection-to-seekdb-sample-program.md).

## Database connection pools

seekdb supports multiple database connection pools. You can select a connection pool based on your business requirements.

* [Tomcat](400.use-the-database-connection-pool/200.tomcat-connection-pool-configuration-example.md)
* [C3P0](400.use-the-database-connection-pool/300.c3p0-connection-pool-configuration-example.md)
* [Proxool](400.use-the-database-connection-pool/400.proxool-connection-pool-configuration-example.md)
* [HikariCP](400.use-the-database-connection-pool/500.hikaricp-connection-pool-configuration-example.md)
* [DBCP](400.use-the-database-connection-pool/600.dbcp-connection-pool-example.md)
* [Commons Pool](400.use-the-database-connection-pool/700.commonpool-configuration-example.md)
* [Druid](400.use-the-database-connection-pool/800.druid-connection-pool-configuration-example.md)