---
slug: /connect-to-seekdb-by-using-a-mysql-client
---

# Connect to seekdb by using a MySQL client

This topic describes the prerequisites, connection procedure, and examples of connecting to seekdb by using a MySQL client.

## Prerequisites

Before you connect to seekdb by using a MySQL client, make sure that the following conditions are met:

* You have installed a MySQL client. The supported versions of the MySQL client for the current version of seekdb are V5.5, V5.6, and V5.7.

* The `PATH` environment variable contains the directory where the MySQL client commands are stored.

* Before you connect to an instance, make sure that the client is in the allowlist of the instance. For more information about how to configure an allowlist, see [Network security access control](../../../400.guides/500.manage/300.security/300.access-control/300.network-security-access-control.md).

## Procedure

To connect to seekdb by using a MySQL client, run the following command:

```shell
mysql -h$host -P$port -u$user_name -p****** [-c] [-A] [$database_name]
```

**Parameter description:**

* `-h`: specifies the IP address for connecting to seekdb. Replace `$host` with the actual IP address. You can also use the local IP address or 127.0.0.1.
* `-P`: specifies the port for connecting to seekdb. Replace `$port` with the actual port number. The default value is 2881, which can be customized during seekdb deployment.
* `-u`: specifies the account for connecting to seekdb. The format of `$user_name` is `username`. The default username is `root`.
* `-p`: specifies the password for connecting to seekdb. Replace `******` with the actual password string.

   :::info

   For security, we recommend that you do not enter the password in the command line, especially in an environment where scripts or command-line history are visible. You can omit this option and enter the password when prompted.

   :::

* `-c`: optional. Specifies whether to ignore comments in the MySQL running environment.

   :::info

   Hint is a special comment that is not affected by `-c`.

   :::

* `-A`: optional. Specifies whether to automatically obtain statistics when connecting to seekdb.
* `$database_name`: optional. Specifies the default database to use after connecting to seekdb. If this parameter is not provided, no default database is automatically selected, and you need to select a database manually after connecting.

**Example:**

```shell
mysql -h127.0.0.1 -uroot -P2881 -p****** -c -A test
```

## Examples

1. Open a command-line terminal.
2. Connect to seekdb by using a MySQL client.

   ```shell
   mysql -hxxx.xx.xxx.xxx -P2881 -uroot -p****** -A test
   ```

   The return result is as follows:

   ```shell
   Welcome to the MariaDB monitor.  Commands end with ; or \g.
   Your MySQL connection id is 3221614856
   Server version: 5.7.25 OceanBase 4.3.5.3 SeekDB (r1.0.0.0) (Built 100000262025111218-5343637512e28c346f938516af53b7879d4d5974 Nov 12 2025)

   Copyright (c) 2000, 2018, Oracle, MariaDB Corporation Ab and others.

   Type 'help;' or '\h' for help. Type '\c' to clear the current input statement.

   MySQL [(test)]>
   ```

3. To exit the MySQL command-line interface, enter `exit` and press Enter, or press the **Ctrl** + **D** shortcut key.

## More information

If you encounter issues while connecting to seekdb by using a MySQL client, we recommend that you consult the official documentation of the MySQL client.