---

slug: /specify-character-set-and-collation
---

# Database-level character set and collation

Each database has a default character set and a default collation.

## Specify the character set and collation for a database

The `CREATE DATABASE` statement is used to specify the character set and collation for a database. The syntax is as follows:

```sql
CREATE DATABASE database_name
    [DEFAULT] CHARACTER SET [=] charset_name
    [[DEFAULT] COLLATE [=] collation_name]

ALTER DATABASE database_name
    [[DEFAULT] CHARACTER SET charset_name]
    [[DEFAULT] COLLATE collation_name]

```

In the preceding syntax, the `CHARACTER SET` and `COLLATE` clauses can be used to create databases with different character sets and collations on the same seekdb.

Here are examples of creating and modifying a database character set:

```sql
/* Create a database with the Latin-1 character set. */
CREATE DATABASE latin1_db CHARSET latin1;

/* Change the character set of an existing UTF-8 database to Latin-1. */
CREATE DATABASE db CHARSET=utf8mb4;
ALTER DATABASE db CHARSET latin1;
```

## Select the character set and collation for a database

seekdb selects the character set and collation for a database based on the following rules:

* If both `CHARACTER SET charset_name` and `COLLATE collation_name` are specified, the character set `charset_name` and collation `collation_name` are used.

* If `CHARACTER SET charset_name` is specified but `COLLATE` is not, the character set `charset_name` and its default collation are used. To view the default collation for each character set, use the `SHOW CHARACTER SET` statement.

* If `COLLATE collation_name` is specified but `CHARACTER SET` is not, the character set associated with `collation_name` and the specified collation are used.

* If neither `CHARACTER SET` nor `COLLATE` is specified, the server's character set and collation are used.

The default character set and collation for the default database can be determined by the values of the `character_set_database` and `collation_database` system variables. To view the default character set and collation for a specified database, use the following statement:

```sql
USE database_name;
SELECT @@character_set_database, @@collation_database;
```

or:

```sql
SELECT DEFAULT_CHARACTER_SET_NAME, DEFAULT_COLLATION_NAME
FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.SCHEMATA WHERE SCHEMA_NAME = 'database_name';
```

Here is an example:

```sql
SET collation_database = 'latin1_swedish_ci';
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.000 sec)
```