---

slug: /json-schema-valid

---

# JSON_SCHEMA_VALID

## Description

This function is used to validate a JSON document. It returns 1 if the JSON document conforms to the JSON Schema specification, and 0 otherwise. It can be used for column constraints.

## Syntax

```sql
JSON_SCHEMA_VALID(schema, document)
```

## Description

* The `schema` parameter specifies the JSON Schema, which must be a valid JSON object.

  * The `required` attribute is supported in JSON Schema to enforce the inclusion of specific attributes.

  * The `id`, `$schema`, `description`, and `type` attributes are supported in JSON Schema, but they are not required.

* The `document` parameter specifies the JSON document to be validated, which must be a valid JSON document.

* If either parameter is not a valid JSON, the function will raise an error.

## Examples

In the following example, a JSON Schema is defined using `'{"type": "string"}'`, indicating that valid JSON data should be of the string type. `'"JSON_doc"'` is the JSON document to be validated.

:::tip

In this statement, the string `JSON_doc` is enclosed in double quotes ("), indicating that it is a valid JSON string, not just a regular string. In JSON, string values must be enclosed in double quotes.

:::

```sql
SELECT JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"type": "string"}', '"JSON_doc"');
```

The result is as follows:

```shell
+-------------------------------------------------------+
| JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"type": "string"}', '"JSON_doc"') |
+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                     1 |
+-------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.001 sec)
```

In this example, since the JSON document is a valid JSON string that conforms to the string type specified by the schema, the function returns `1`, indicating that the validation was successful.