---

slug: /primary-key-operations

---

# Primary key operations

This topic describes how to add, modify, and drop primary keys in seekdb.

## Add a primary key

The syntax is as follows:

```sql
ALTER TABLE table_name ADD PRIMARY KEY (column_name);
```

In this syntax, `table_name` specifies the name of the table to which you want to add a primary key, and `column_name` specifies the column to which you want to add the primary key. For more information, see [ALTER TABLE](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/common-oceanbase-database-10000000001974126).

Assume that a table named tbl1 exists in the database. You can add a primary key index to the tbl1 table and apply it to the c1 column. Example:

```shell
ALTER TABLE tbl1 ADD PRIMARY KEY(c1);
```

## Modify a primary key

The syntax is as follows:

```sql
ALTER TABLE table_name DROP PRIMARY KEY, ADD PRIMARY KEY (column_name);
```

In this syntax, `table_name` specifies the name of the table to which you want to add a primary key, and `column_name` specifies the column to which you want to add the primary key. For more information, see [ALTER TABLE](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/common-oceanbase-database-10000000001974126).

Assume that a table named tbl1 exists in the database and that a primary key exists in the tbl1 table. You can modify the primary key in the tbl1 table and apply it to the c2 column. Example:

```shell
ALTER TABLE tbl1 DROP PRIMARY KEY, ADD PRIMARY KEY(c2);
```

## Drop a primary key

The syntax is as follows:

```sql
ALTER TABLE table_name DROP PRIMARY KEY;
```

In this syntax, `table_name` specifies the name of the table to which you want to add a primary key. For more information, see [ALTER TABLE](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/common-oceanbase-database-10000000001974126).

Assume that a table named tbl1 exists in the database and that a primary key exists in the tbl1 table. You can drop the primary key in the tbl1 table. Example:

```shell
ALTER TABLE tbl1 DROP PRIMARY KEY;
```

## References

[View indexes](https://www.oceanbase.com/docs/common-oceanbase-database-cn-1000000002015434)