---

slug: /percentile_cont
---

# PERCENTILE_CONT

## Description

This function calculates the exact percentile of a specified column. It sorts the input column in ascending order and returns the interpolated result based on the given percentile value (`percentile`).

## Limitations

The `PERCENTILE_CONT` function in the current version does not support the `DATETIME` type.

## Syntax

```sql
PERCENTILE_CONT(expr, percentile)
```

## Parameters

* `expr`: the column for which to calculate the percentile. It must be a numeric type. For more information about the supported types, see [Supported types](#Supported types).

    :::info

    `PERCENTILE_CONT` automatically ignores `NULL` values in the input column.

    :::

* `percentile`: the specified percentile value, indicating the position of the target value in the data distribution. It is a floating-point constant in the range [0, 1].

### Supported types

* Integer types: `TINYINT`, `SMALLINT`, `MEDIUMINT`, `INT`/`INTEGER`, and `BIGINT`.
* Fixed-point types: `DECIMAL` and `NUMERIC`.
* Floating-point types: `FLOAT` and `DOUBLE`.
* Bit-value type: `BIT`.

## Return type

The return type is consistent with the type of `expr`.

It returns a value at the specified percentile. If no input value exactly matches the required percentile, it calculates the result using linear interpolation between the two closest input values.

## Examples

1. Create a test table `test_tbl1` with columns `col1` and `col2`.

   ```sql
   CREATE TABLE test_tbl1(col1 VARCHAR(10), col2 INT);
   ```

2. Insert test data into the `test_tbl1` table.

   ```sql
   INSERT INTO test_tbl1 VALUES
       ('A1', 80), ('A1', 100), ('A1', NULL),
       ('B1', 60), ('B1', 70), ('B1', 85),
       ('C1', 75), ('C1', 80), ('C1', 85), ('C1', 99);
   ```

3. Use `PERCENTILE_CONT` to calculate the median (50th percentile) of column `col1` for each category.

   ```sql
   SELECT col1, PERCENTILE_CONT(col2, 0.5)
   FROM test_tbl1
   GROUP BY col1;
   ```

   The result is as follows:

   ```shell
   +------+----------------------------+
   | col1 | PERCENTILE_CONT(col2, 0.5) |
   +------+----------------------------+
   | A1   |                         90 |
   | B1   |                         70 |
   | C1   |                       82.5 |
   +------+----------------------------+
   3 rows in set (0.002 sec)
   ```