---

slug: /found-rows

---

# FOUND_ROWS

## Syntax

```sql
FOUND_ROWS()
```

## Description

A `SELECT` statement may include a `LIMIT` clause to restrict the number of rows returned by the database server to the client. In some cases, you might want to know how many rows the statement would have returned without the `LIMIT` clause without re-executing the statement. You can use the `SQL_CALC_FOUND_ROWS` option in the `SELECT` statement and then call the `FOUND_ROWS()` function to get the number of rows that the statement would have returned without the `LIMIT` clause.

Here is an example:

```javascript
SELECT SQL_CALC_FOUND_ROWS * FROM tbl_name
     WHERE id > 100 LIMIT 10;
SELECT FOUND_ROWS();
```

The second `SELECT` statement returns a number indicating how many rows the first `SELECT` statement would have returned without the `LIMIT` clause. If the `SELECT` statement does not use the `SQL_CALC_FOUND_ROWS` option, the `FOUND_ROWS()` function may return different results when the statement is executed with and without the `LIMIT` clause.

The number of rows returned by the `FOUND_ROWS()` function is instantaneous and cannot be used by statements that follow the `SELECT SQL_CALC_FOUND_ROWS` statement. If you need to use this value later, you must save it.

Here is an example:

```sql
SELECT SQL_CALC_FOUND_ROWS * FROM ... ;
SET @rows = FOUND_ROWS();
```

If you are using `SQL_CALC_FOUND_ROWS`, the system must calculate how many rows are in the entire result set. However, this is still faster than re-executing the query without the `LIMIT` clause because the result set does not need to be sent to the client.

`SQL_CALC_FOUND_ROWS` and `FOUND_ROWS()` are useful when you want to limit the number of rows returned by a query but also want to know how many rows are in the entire result set without re-executing the query. For example, in a web script that provides paginated display, the display includes links to other pages of search results. Using `FOUND_ROWS()` allows you to determine how many additional pages are needed for the remaining results.

The use of `SQL_CALC_FOUND_ROWS` and `FOUND_ROWS()` is more complex for `UNION` queries than for simple `SELECT` statements because the `LIMIT` clause can appear in multiple places within a `UNION`. It may apply to individual `SELECT` statements within the `UNION` or to the entire `UNION` result.

The expected result of `SQL_CALC_FOUND_ROWS` for a `UNION` is to return the appropriate number of rows without a global `LIMIT`. The conditions for using `SQL_CALC_FOUND_ROWS` with a `UNION` are:

* The `SQL_CALC_FOUND_ROWS` keyword must appear in the first `SELECT` of the `UNION`.

* The value of `FOUND_ROWS()` is accurate only when using `UNION ALL`. If you use a `UNION` without the `ALL` keyword, there will be two deletions, and the value of `FOUND_ROWS()` will be approximate.

* If there is no `LIMIT` clause in the `UNION`, the `SQL_CALC_FOUND_ROWS` option is ignored, and the number of rows created in the temporary table to handle the `UNION` is returned.

## Examples

```sql
SELECT SQL_CALC_FOUND_ROWS * FROM t2;
SELECT FOUND_ROWS();
+--------------+
| FOUND_ROWS() |
+--------------+
|            3 |
+--------------+
1 row in set (0.001 sec)
```